---
layout: post
category: documentation
title: "Workshop maps"
date: 2021-01-16
---

The server uses a map collection on the Steam workshop to control which maps are used on the server. We defined the [kifserver](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2187570436) collection.

## How to make the server use the workshop
Three steps:
1. Steam Web Api Key
2. Map collection to use
3. Startup Map specification


### 1. Get a  Steam Web API Key

To access the map collection on the workshop the server needs to use the Steam Web API. Therefore it needs an access key to that API.

Register a new API Key at [https://steamcommunity.com/dev/apikey](https://steamcommunity.com/dev/apikey)

Copy your new  key (something like 25B72DCA80CAEC816D65398C321E188A) and put it into blank file called `webapi_authkey.txt` in your servers CSGO folder , e.g. `csgo_ds/csgo`.


### 2. Tell the server which collection to follow
Simply put the command

```
host_workshop_collection 123456789
```

to your autoexec.cfg, replacing 123456789 with your collections ID. Yout can find your ID quite easily: open it with your browser in the workshop and take a look at the URL: it will be something like
```
https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=123456789
```
That last parameter is your id.

To make the server inform you about its progress when it is downloading a new map you can put the additional line
```
sv_broadcast_ugc_downloads 1
```
into your autoexec.cfg. As this is rarely the case this is not really needed, though it sounds nice.

### 3. Specify the startup map

When using the Workshop Mode you cannot specify the startup map of the server by using the `+map` start parameter. Instead you need to use `+host_workshop_map` parameter. Unfortunately the new parameter needs a different argument than the old one: instead of the map name you need the map id now. You can find that once more by opening the map in the workshop and copying it from the address. <br>
So `+map cs_office` gets `+host_workshop_map 125444404`

### A thing to take care of

 When switching the server to _Workshop Mode_ it will no longer use the standard maps that come preinstalled. The get around that the CS team provided an [_official_ map collection](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=264837167), that you can add to your servers map collection. You can find that collection in the workshop as well.


There might be some hassle with the map groups, but we'll cover that later.
